# Contributing
Welcome! Thank you for taking an interest in contributing to Vineflower.

## Before making a pull request
* The [ARCHITECTURE.md](./ARCHITECTURE.md) file in the repository contains technical information on how Vineflower is structured. Reading that will greatly help with familiarizing yourself with the codebase and with PR development.
* It's highly recommended to socialize your changes first through our [social platforms](https://github.com/Vineflower) before making a pull request!
* Check out the issue tracker and roadmap! You can find good things to contribute there.
* Make sure your pull request is based off of the latest development branch in the repository. The main branch is a stable snapshot, representing the latest released version of the decompiler.

## Good things to contribute
* Fixes to bugs present in the decompiler.
* Improvements to the readability of the decompiled code.
* New feature support for the decompiler.
* Optimization, to make it run faster and use fewer resources.
* Tests! Tests are always appreciated.

## Where to look for things to contribute
* The [issue tracker](https://github.com/Vineflower/vineflower/issues) is a great place to start. Issues tagged with "good first issue" are marked to be beginner-friendly.
* More technical issues are usually found in the [Test class](https://github.com/Vineflower/vineflower/blob/master/test/org/jetbrains/java/decompiler/SingleClassesTest.java) where individual wrong tests are described with their errors.

## Code Style and guidelines
While the code inherited from Fernflower varies with its style and syntax, it's expected that pull requests stick to our established code style.
* We use UpperCamelCase for class names, camelCase for method, variable, local variable, and field names, and UPPER_SNAKE_CASE for static final fields. Please always qualify instance fields with a `this.` qualifier.
* Please try to keep pull requests small and self-contained! It makes reviewing and maintaining the patch much easier.
* Statements should always have braces around them, even if they are only 1 line in their length.
* Fernflower's code is barely documented, but patches should add documentation in a high level manner so that other devs can understand what is going on within the patch, and any idiosyncrasies within.
* When submitting new features or obscure fixes, it is also recommended to cite the relevant portion of the Java Language Specification for future reference and for getting a better understanding of the code that has to be generated by the patch.

## Tests
* Vineflower uses a large and expansive test suite to ensure that patches don't cause any regressions. Please make sure that your patches don't break any of the tests!
* In the case that you're adding a new feature to the decompiler, it's acceptable to modify failing tests to make them succeed. Please make a note of this in the pull request.
* When contributing, you should add new tests that cover the area of code that you are targeting. Having more tests makes the decompiler more robust, so it's always appreciated.

## Resources
Fernflower is a very complex and involved bit of software, and there's a lot going on in a rather questionable structure. Naturally, understanding it all is a challenge so various resources are provided here to aid with the process.
* Knowing how java bytecode works is essential. You can find the detailed description of all the opcodes [here](https://docs.oracle.com/javase/specs/jvms/se16/html/jvms-6.html#jvms-6.5) or a simple list of them [here.](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Java_bytecode_instruction_listings)
* Graph theory comes up frequently in the statement analysis portion of Fernflower. It's useful knowing about [Basic Blocks](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Basic_block), [Control Flow Graphs](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Control-flow_graph), and [Dominators.](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Dominator_(graph_theory))
* [Static Single Assignment Form](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Static_single_assignment_form) is also used widely to track variables and their versions within the decompilation stages.
* The [Java Language Specification](https://docs.oracle.com/javase/specs/jls/se16/html/), while dense, is a good source of information regarding language features.
* The [ARCHITECTURE.md](./ARCHITECTURE.md) file in the repository contains important information about how Fernflower is structured.
* The [social platforms](https://github.com/Vineflower) contains many people who have worked with the code before, so any remaining questions are best asked there.

## License
* Vineflower is licensed under Apache Version 2.0. By submitting a patch you are agreeing to license your code under it. Please do not submit pull requests containing code you do not have the rights to!